I'm interviewing Mrs. Ares Williams of Edmonton.
You were asking about the Welsh language.
Now, this is very interesting, Glenys,
because it goes back to the very beginning of what I said about the Welsh church here.
This has been a very integral part of the keeping of the Welsh culture of the language,
particularly possibly for my sister's generation and mine.
It was completely Welsh service, of course,
and they carried out the format of the service,
much as they do in the Welsh chapels in Wales.
And we simply had to go in front during the service,
as many of the children did,
to recite Welsh verses or verses of hymns,
biblical verses I was referring to, first of all.
And that, I think, is where we got our real grounding
of the pronunciation and, well, and the understanding of it.
And though my parents were as Welsh as anyone who ever came out of Wales,
my father was Mr. T. Morris Hughes from Mould in Flenshire,
and our mother was from Rithyn.
And they spoke every word of Welsh in the house,
but somehow didn't carry on the conversation with Stella and myself.
And we often mentioned it to them in later years.
Mama used to say,
well, you had your grounding in the Welsh verses
and the way you memorized,
and it's really rather difficult to understand
why they didn't keep it up.
We understand practically every word.
And then, of course, I was very fortunate to marry Len,
who is from Anglesey, from Llanborog, Anglesey.
And to this day, I tease him that he thinks in Welsh
and speaks in English.
And though we don't converse,
he has never lost his Welsh.
As a matter of fact, 16 years ago, we went back to Wales,
and he spoke as fluent Welsh as he did.
At that time, he'd been out here 35 years
and simply thrilled everybody.
So, of course, he kept my Welsh up.
I used to do a little bit of singing,
and, of course, he did too.
And our son, Glyn, learned his Welsh hymn,
which he sang as guest soloist
in San Francisco National Command there
through coaching by his father, Len, of course.
So we have been very fortunate
in being able to keep the...
to a certain extent, the understanding.
But I'm not very fluent
in the actual conversational French, Welsh.
Would you like to say just a few words in Welsh to finish?
Well, I rather stun my listeners occasionally.
As a matter of fact, not too long ago,
I was describing Anglesey
and mentioning about the littlest town there
with the largest name
and Llanbair, Pullgwingil,
Gogerrach, Hurran Drubull,
Llandisiljogar Gooch.
And I often play the record
of the male voice choir.
And I'm always tempted,
which I practically always do,
tell them that it's all right
to say they're from Hros,
but for those who know better,
they come from Hros, Llanbaird, Rhegog.
And believe it or not,
I found that really more of a problem
than Llanbaird Peejee.
But, oh, I don't know.
I think possibly I'll carry on this program.
It is unique.
As far as I know,
I don't think there is another Welsh program.
In North America,
I had never heard of any in the States.
And I'm quite sure
there isn't another one in Canada.
If there is,
I would most certainly like to hear of it.
But CKUA is rather a unique station.
It is non-commercial
and just is centered around ethnic groups
and has been a great help
to the Welsh community of Edmonton.